Also, you're not limited to looping through arrays of single elements, you could also loop through
arrays which hold objects or you can also loop through objects,
let me show you. Above this template here since this really populates the whole field,
I'll enter some new code, a horizontal line above and below so that we can clearly see it. Here
I want to output an unordered list with a list item obviously, where I will use my for loop as before.
Now I want to loop through persons, so I will loop through person in persons and then I could output
person referring this person variable created by vuejs
automatically here, since I named it like that, person.name for example. If I hit enter, we see
Max and Anna here, that should be straightforward, it's the same usage as before, just using objects now
but since I access the properties there like I always do,
there's nothing special about that.
Now let's say I don't want to use this default loop but instead I want to loop through all the key value
pairs in that object, like in a for/in loop in normal javascript.
Let's say I want to create a span for each key value pair
and here I can use a nested for loop with v-for, I can nest them as much as I want and then looping
through it is as simple as extracting the value in persons,
so in person excuse me.
So person here refers to the person up here in the outer loop, since I gave it that name and we're in this
current iteration since we're in that specific list item and value,
well that name was chosen by me but it will automatically be the value of each property,
so I could output value here, just like that. If I now hit control enter,
we see Max, 27, not very nicely formatted but you do see that these are the values of all the properties
of these persons here,
so that is how we can loop through properties of objects.
Now as with arrays where we could also retrieve the index, for looping through objects, we can also not
only retrieve the value of a property but by adding parentheses,
also the key. As with arrays, the ordering here is important,
the names of these variables which are created automatically are chosen by me,
I could also name this v and k, just like that. But the order is important,
the first one and if you don't add parentheses, the only one as before will always be the value of the
property,
the second one, key in this case will be the name of the property,
the key name.
So I could say key colon
and then the value
and if I now hit enter, you see it looks a little bit nicer.
If we make this a div instead of a span, well then we clearly can see name, age, color for all the
persons,
so now we're looping through all the key value pairs extracting both key and value, value again is the
first element though and then outputting it here by using the variable names we chose between the parentheses.
Finally if we also want to get the number of the iteration, we can access the index by passing a third kind
of argument here,
so adding a third variable between the parentheses,
this will be simply the index of the current iteration.
So here I can finally then output in parentheses after the value here for example between curly braces as
always,
the index like that. Fortunately a bit hard to read, that should make it easier.
So if I hit enter a final time,
well we see the index here,
0, 1, 2, 0, 1, 2 as we loop through the property or the key value pairs in our objects here.
That is the v-for loop,
keep in mind using all these fields here between parentheses is optional,
you can always go with the default by just extracting one element which in the case of looping through
objects happens to be the value
and in the case of normal arrays happens to be the element value,
so always the value basically. But you can extend it with parentheses to get more information out of
the object you're looping through.